>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16th, THE
LATEST FROM THE PHILIPPINE
WHERE MORE THAN 1,000 PEOPLE ARE
STILL MISSING IN THE AFTERMATH
OF THE TYPHOON THERE
>>> THE ABORTION DEBATE IN CHILE
IGNITES AFTER AN 11-YEAR-OLD'S
DECISION TO KEEP HER BABY.
>>> ORDINARY PEOPLE,
EXTRAORDINARY IMAGES OF JOHN F
KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION.
>> SHE HAD NO IDEA WHAT SHE WA
PHOTOGRAPHING WAS TH
ASSASSINATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES
>> NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS A
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
IT'S BEEN MORE THAN A WEEK SINCE
TYPHOON HAIYAN SMASHED INTO TH
PHILIPPINES KILLING 3600 PEOPL
AND LEAVING 1200 MORE MISSING.
TODAY, SOME FILIPINOS WERE
SEARCHING THROUGH THE RUBBLE FOR
LOST LOVED ONES.
OTHERS LINED UP AT THE AIRPORT
IN TACLOBAN TO ESCAPE TH
DEVASTATED CITY.
>> IT'S DIFFICULT TO RECEIVE
RELIEF
OUR SAFETY AT OUR HOUSE IS
REALLY QUITE NOT GOOD YET.
THERE'S STILL A LOT OF LOOTERS
AND ROBBERS.
[ INAUDIBLE
>> SOME RELIEF IS ARRIVING
U.S. MILITARY HELICOPTER
DROPPED FOOD AND WATER T
DESPERATE STORM SURVIVORS.
THE MILITARY IS DELIVERS
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF GALLONS
OF FRESH WATER A DAY
FILIPINO MILITARY CHOPPERS ARE
DELIVERING AID TO STRICKEN
REMOTE REGIONS AREAS WITHOUT
POWER EIGHT DAYS AFTER IT STRUCK
WITH WINDS OF 200 MILES PE
HOUR
>> WE LAND THE HELICOPTERS FRO
THE POPULATED AREAS.
THE PEOPLE COME IN
>> AS THE DAYS PASS, STORIES ARE
EMERGING ABOUT THE EXTRAORDINARY
EFFORTS PEOPLE MADE TO STA
ALIVE IN THE AFTERMATH OF LAST
WEEKEND'S STORM.
WE FILED THIS REPORT EARLIER I
THE WEEK ABOUT THE TYPHOON KNOWN
AS OWE LAN DOE
>> SHE'S CALLED YOLANDA.
THE TYPHOON HIT HOURS BEFORE SHE
WAS BORN
A NEW LIFE AMID DEATH AN
DESTRUCTION.
IN THE CHAOS, LOURDES WAS FORCED
TO GIVE BIRTH, THEN WALK TWO
MILES WITH HER NEW DAUGHTER,
UMBILICAL CORD STILL ATTACHE
FOR MEDICS TO TREAT HER.
WHAT DOES THE FUTURE HOLD FO
BABY YOLANDA
THEY HAVE NO HOME, NO MONEY, N
MEDICINE, SHE SAYS
THIS IS THE CHURCH WHERE SHE WAS
BORN
THE PEWS NOW BEDS FOR THOSE IN
PAIN WHERE PRAYERS ARE NOT BEING
ANSWERED
THERE ARE PEOPLE HERE WITH
WOUNDS THAT NEED TREATING.
THERE ARE NEWBORN BABIES
THERE ARE THE ELDERLY.
THERE IS NO AID FROM THE
GOVERNMENT
THEY WAIT, STILL BELIEVING I
HOPE AND A DIRE.
WHERE EVEN THE PRIEST IS LOSIN
FAITH.
>> FOOD, MEDICINES, WATER.
NO AID COMING FROM OUR
GOVERNMENT YET
>> Reporter: THE CHURCH IS YARDS
OF WHAT WAS A BUSY HOSPITAL.
THEY CAN DO NOTHING FOR TH
LIVING NOW
THE DEAD ARE LEFT LYING AT THE
ENTRANCE
ALONG THE ROAD, STREETS OF
SHATTERED SHOPS, SOLDIER
LOOKING FOR LOOTERS, DAYS OF
DESPERATION.
ALMOST A WEEK WAITING FOR TH
AID THAT'S NEEDED.
WHILE TINY YOLANDA SLEEPS,
THANKFULLY UNAWARE OF TH
NIGHTMARE SHE'S BEEN BORN INTO
>> ELSEWHERE OVERSEAS, I
AFGHANISTAN SIX PEOPLE KILLE
AND DOZENS WOUNDED AFTER A CAR
PACKED WITH EXPLOSIVES RAMME
INTO ANOTHER VEHICLE
3,000 TRIBAL ELDERS WILL MEE
NEXT WEEK TO CONSIDER A SECURITY
PLAN TO ALLOW U.S. TROOPS TO
REMAIN IN AFGHANISTAN BEYOND
NEXT YEAR.
IN THIS COUNTRY, DURING HI
WEEKLY RADIO ADDRESS, PRESIDEN
OBAMA SAID THE ECONOMY I
BENEFITING FROM THE ENERGY
OUTLOOK.
>> JUST THIS WEEK, WE LEARNE
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN NEARLY TWO
DECADES, THE UNITED STATES O
AMERICA PRODUCES MORE OF OUR OWN
OIL HERE AT HOME THAN WE BUY
FROM OTHER COUNTRIES
THAT'S A BIG DEAL.
IT'S A TREMENDOUS STEP TOWAR
AMERICAN ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
>> THE REPUBLICAN RESPONSE
SENATOR RON JOHNSON RIDICULE
THE PRESIDENT'S APOLOGY FOR TH
BOTCHED ROLLOUT.
MORE THAN 4 MILLION AMERICAN
RECEIVED NOTICES THEIR HEALT
INSURANCE WILL BE CANCELLE
DESPITE THE REASSURANCE EVERYONE
WHO HAD IT COULD KEEP IT
>> THEY WERE NOT SLIGH
EXAGGERATIONS, THEY WERE
STATEMENTS FULLY VETTED, COLDL
CALCULATED AND CAREFULLY CRAFTED
TO DECEPTIVELY SELL YOUR HEALT
CARE PLAN TO A TRUSTING PUBLIC
POLITICAL FRAUD ECHOED BY HOUS
AND SENATE DEMOCRATS
>> THERE'S BEEN AN OUTBREAK OF
MENINGITIS IN NEW JERSEY
BECAUSE IT'S A STRAIN NO
COMMONLY FOUND IN THE UNITED
STATES, FEDERAL AUTHORITIES WILL
ALLOW THE IMPORTATION OF A
ADVOCATE SAGS APPROVED I
AUSTRALIA BUT NOT THE U.S.
A UNIVERSITY SPOKESMAN SAYS
SIXTH STUDENT CONTRACTED THE
DISEASE, WHICH CAN BE SPREAD
THROUGH COUGHING AND THE
EXCHANGE OF SALIVA
ONE VISITOR CAME DOWN WITH IT.
PEOPLE IN CROWDED LIVING SPACE
LIKE DORMITORIES ARE
SUSCEPTIBLE.
THE BRAZILIAN ENVIRONMENTA
INDUSTRY SAID THE RATE O
DEFORESTATION IN THE AMAZON IS
ON THE RISE Z, UP 28% DURING A
12-MONTH PERIOD ENDING THI
SUMMER
>>> NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SECTION.
IT'S BEEN MORE THAN 40 YEARS
SINCE THE U.S. SUPREME COURT
RULING SINCE ROE V. WADE
LEGALIZED ABORTION
MANY STATES RECENTLY PASSE
LEGISLATION RESTRICTING ABORTION
AND A FEW NATIONS PROHIBIT I
ALL TOGETHER
WHEN YOU KNOW IS CHILE
IT IS ILLEGAL THERE EVEN I
CASES OF RAPE AND INCEST
EVEN SO, THE BEST ESTIMATES AR
100,000 ABORTIONS ARE PERFORMS
IN CHILE, MOST DONE SECRETLY
THROUGH ANONYMOUS ABORTION
PROVIDERS.
THERE'S BEEN LITTLE DISCUSSE
UNTIL RECENTLY, THE CASE OF
FIFTH GRADERS RAPE AND PREGNAN
NANTY.
WHAT HAPPENED TO AN 11-YEAR-OL
GIRL IN CHILE IGNITED A DEBATE
IN THIS CONSERVATIVE CATHOLI
COUNTRY ABOUT AN ALWAYS TABO
SUBJECT, ABORTION.
THE GIRL WAS RAPED REPEATEDL
AND IMPREGNATED BY HER
STEPFATHER
IT WAS BIGGER NEWS AFTER THE
PRESIDENT WENT ON NATIONAL
TELEVISION TO CONGRATULATE THE
FIFTH GRADER FOR NOT TERMINATING
HER PREGNANCY.
>> Translator: DESPITE THE PAIN,
SHE WAS GOING TO LOVE AND TAKE
CARE OF HER BABY
>> Reporter: THE PRESIDENT'S
COMMENTS DREW CONDEMNATION FRO
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE AMNESTY
INTERNATIONAL.
IN ONE CASE, A GROUP OF YOUN
WOMEN BARED THEIR BREASTED AND
MARCHED IN DOWNTOWN SANTIAGO
A POLL SHOWS TWO-THIRDS OF WOMEN
CHOOSE ABORTION AFTER BEIN
RAPED.
>> Translator: THE CASE OF A
LITTLE GIRL WHO WAS RAPED BY HER
STEPFATHER IN SOUTHERN CHILE
MOVED PUBLIC OPINION
MAYBE WOMEN CAN DECIDE FREELY ON
THEIR BODY, OUR BODIES
>> Reporter: THEY ARE MAINLY
CATHOLIC
ABORTION IS ILLEGAL.
MOST COUNTRIES ALLOW EXCEPTION
IN RAPE AND IN CASES TO HELP
MOTHER AND FETUS
FOR MOST OF THE 20th CENTURY
CHILE ALLOWED THOSE EXCEPTIONS
THAT CHANGED IN 1989 AT THE EN
OF A 27 YEAR DICTATORSHIP.
HE ISSUED A DECREE BANNING ALL
ABORTIONS.
CHILE IS ONE OF FOUR COUNTRIES
IN AMERICAS THAT PROHIBIT AL
ABORTIONS IN ALL REGIONS
IT HAS BEEN DISCUSSED LITTLE
SINCE THE CASE OF TH
11-YEAR-OLD MADE NATIONAL NEWS
>> THAT CASE CAST A SPOTLIGHT ON
THE PRACTICES GOING ON IN CHIL
FOR YEARS, BUT RAREL
ACKNOWLEDGED
DESPITE THE BAN ON ABORTIONS
THE GOVERNMENT LOOKS THE OTHER
WAY FOR AFFLUENT OR WOMEN UNLESS
THERE'S A MEDICAL CONDITION FO
THE PROCEDURE.
SOMETIMES DOCTORS FALSIF
RECORDS TO SAY THEY HAD BEEN
CONDUCTING OTHER PROCEDURE
INSTEAD.
BY MOST ESTIMATES, THERE ARE
120,000 ELECTIVE ABORTIONS EVERY
YEAR
>> Reporter: THIS WOMAN'S STOR
ILLUSTRATES THAT STATISTIC
THIS 30-YEAR-OLD WOMAN WHO LIVES
IN SANTIAGO SAYS SHE BECAM
PREGNANT AFTER HER DOCTOR TOLD
HER TO STOP TAKING BIRTH CONTROL
PILLS DUE TO A CIRCULATORY
PROBLEM.
SHE SPOKE IN SHADOW BECAUSE SH
IS SUBJECT TO DEATH IF FOUND
OUT.
MORE THAN 400 WOMEN AND MEN AR
IN JAIL OR ON PROBATION ON SUC
CHARGES.
>> Translator: THE TRUTH IS THAT
I THINK IF SOMEONE GETS PREGNANT
AT 30 YEARS OLD AND WASN'T ON
HORMONAL BIRTH CONTROL O
COUNTING THE DAYS, IT'
IGNORANT
I KNEW I WAS INVOLVED IN A RISKY
SITUATION.
>> Reporter: ARRANGING A
ELECTIVE ABORTION IN CHILE I
LIKE MAKING A DRUG DEAL.
>> Translator: IT FEELS LIKE YOU
ARE DOING SOMETHING CRIMINAL
LIKE THE ENTIRE TIME YOU FEE
LIKE YOU ARE DOING SOMETHING
REALLY, REALLY WRONG
>> Reporter: SHE MET A WOMAN O
A STREET CORNER, LED BY ANOTHE
WOMAN SHE DIDN'T KNOW TO A
BUILDING SHE COULD NEVER FIN
AGAIN.
SHE WENT TO A SMALL APARTMENT.
>> Translator: I HAD NO IDEA
WHAT THEY WERE INJECTING M
WITH
>> YOU HAVE TO HOPE AND TRUST --
>> Translator: I THOUGHT, WELL
WHAT IF SOMETHING HAPPENS TO ME?
WHO DO I CALL?
SHOULD I CALL THE AMBULANCE?
OKAY, WELL, THEN WE'LL ALL GO TO
JAIL
>> Reporter: SOME PEOPLE SAY
THIS IS A RELIGIOUS COUNTRY.
YOU KNOW VERY WELL THAT IT'S
TRUE
YOU ALSO KNOW THE RISKS AND YO
KNOW WHAT THE RULES ARE, WHA
WOULD YOU SAY TO THEM?
>> Translator: THERE'S N
SYMPATHY
WHY CAN'T I MAKE A MISTAKE
I FEEL THIS IS A BIG INJUSTICE
AND MAKES ME MOTIVATED TO DO
MORE
I HAVE TO BE RESPONSIBLE, THER
ARE WOMEN BEHIND ME.
I DO NOT WANT THEM TO GO THROUGH
THIS
>> Reporter: THEY NEVER DISCUS
ABORTION
FEW OF THEM KNOW WHAT SHE'S GONE
THROUGH.
SHE SAYS IT'S A CONSPIRACY O
SILENCE FOR FEAR OF GOING TO
JAIL OR SHUNNED BY THOSE WHO
OPPOSE ABORTION.
>> Translator: IT'S SAD.
ITIS VERY LONELY
>> SHE PAID MORE THAN $1,000
APPROACHING A MONTHS AVERAGE
SALARY
SOME WOMEN PAY MANY TIMES THAT
CHILE HAS A MINISTERIA
GOVERNMENT AGENCY DEDICATED TO
WOMEN'S ISSUES, THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN.
WE WANTED TO KNOW WHETHER TH
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WAS DOING
ANYTHING TO HELP WOMEN HAVIN
THESE DANGEROUS PROCEDURES
THE DIRECTOR AGREED TO TALK WITH
US
>> WE SEE STATISTICS SAYIN
THERE ARE 120,000 ABORTIONS IN
CHILE EVERY YEAR
UNDERSTANDING THAT ABORTION IS
ABSOLUTELY ILLEGAL IN CHILE,
DOES THE GOVERNMENT STILL HAVE A
RESPONSIBILITY TO HELP THE WOMEN
WHO HAVE HAD THESE ILLEGAL
ABORTIONS?
>> Translator: IT'S IMPORTANT TO
SAY THE NATIONAL WOMEN'S SERVICE
DOES NOT DO DIRECT WORK IN TERMS
OF ABORTION.
THE STATS YOU ARE MENTIONING
COULD BE RIGHT, BUT OUR GOAL
ARE GEARED TOWARD ADOLESCENT
PREGNANCIES.
>> WHO ELSE COULD I TALK TO IN
THE GOVERNMENT THAT WOULD TELL
ME HOW ONE CAN TAKE CARE O
WOMEN WHO ARE HAVING ABORTIO
AND WHO SOMETIMES OPERATIN
UNDERGROUND IN FRIGHTENING WAY
THAT COULD HURT THEIR HEALTH
>> SHE HASN'T BEEN TACKLING TH
ISSUE OF ABORTIONS OR ADOLESCENT
PREGNANCIES THROUGH ONE AGENCY
>> Reporter: THE GOVERNMENT HA
LIMITED ABILITY TO HELP WOMEN,
PRIVATE GROUPS PROVIDE HOT LIN
COUNSELING
VERONICA IS THE DIRECTOR OF
PRO-LIFE ANTI-ABORTION GROUP
CHILE UNITED
HER HOT LINE IS SUCCESSFUL I
COMFORTING WOMEN AND COUNSELIN
THEM TO KEEP THEIR BABIES.
>> Translator: THEY ARE VERY
LONELY, VERY WORRIED
PERHAPS THEY ARE YOUNG WOMAN WHO
THOUGHT THEY WOULD NOT BE HAVING
A BABY
WHEN THE TEST TELLS THEM THE
ARE GOING TO HAVE A BABY, THEY
FEEL DESPERATE
IT'S WHEN THEY CALL US
WE START TO CHECK IN WITH THOS
WHO ARE THINKING THEY WANT A
ABORTION
>> Reporter: SHE SAYS SH
SYMPATHIZES WITH THE CASE OF THE
11-YEAR-OLD AND YOUNG GIRLS LIKE
HER.
SHE THINKS AN ABORTION WOULD B
WORSE.
>> Translator: I WANT TO MAKE IT
CLEAR, IT'S NOT THAT WE ARE NO
EMPATHIZING WITH THAT LITTLE
GIRL WITH THE SITUATION WITH THE
RAPE, BUT WE KNOW IF THEY MAKE
THE DECISION TO TERMINATE TH
PREGNANCY OF THE CHILD, THAT
DAMAGE WILL BE MORE SEVERE THA
CONTINUING WITH THE PREGNANCY.
>> PRO-CHOICE ADVOCATES PROVID
COUNSELING
THESE ORGANIZATIONS OPERAT
UNDERGROUND.
VOLUNTEERS WEAR MASKS WHEN
PROMOTING THE HOT LINE I
PUBLIC
CLAUDIA SAYS POLITICIANS HAV
BEEN AFRAID TO REVERSE THIS RULE
AGAINST ABORTION
THE MAJORITY OF CHILEANS SUPPORT
IT
>> THEY WANTED TO AVOID TALKIN
ABOUT THEM OR LEGISLATING THEM
WE SAY THE POLITICAL ELITE O
POLITICAL CLASS.
THEY DECIDED NOT TO OPEN THE
DEBATE ON THE ISSUES
THERE HASN'T BEEN A DEBATE I
THE LAST 24 YEARS.
>> CONTROVERSY HAS PROMPTE
MICHELLE, THE FORMER PRESIDENT
AND LIKELY TO BE CHILE'S NEX
PRESIDENT ACCORDING TO POLLS T
DECLARE SHE IS IN FAVOR OF A
SEPGSS TO THE STRICT ABORTIO
LAWS
LAUD YA FEARS THE DIVIDE
CONGRESS MAY BLOCK THE
COMMITMENT TO CHANGE THE LAW
SHE IS GLAD FINALLY THERE IS A
NATIONAL DIALOGUE ON THE
SUBJECT.
>> I THINK THE ISSUE OF ABORTION
HAS COME INTO THE PUBLIC AGENDA.
WE HAVE APPROACHED ALL THE
CANDIDATES TO TALK ABOUT IT.
I THINK THAT IS PROGRESS
IN THAT SENSE, WE HAVE TAKEN A
STEP FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 2
YEARS.
>> AS FOR THE LITTLE GIRL THAT
STARTED THIS, THE HEAD OF TH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN
SAYS THE GOVERNMENT IS KEEPING A
CLOSE EYE ON HER
>> Translator: RIGHT NOW, SHE IS
CARRYING OUT HER PREGNANCY WIT
SPECIAL SUPPORT.
>> CERTAINLY IN HER CASE, THER
WERE CALLS FOR ALLOWING AN
EXTENSION SO SHE COULD HAVE AN
ABORTION
WAS THERE CONSIDERATION BY YOU
OR THE PRESIDENT IN THIS
PARTICULAR CASE THERE SHOULD B
AN EXEMPTION
>> Translator: THE POSITION AN
CONVICTION OF THE NATIONAL
WOMEN'S SERVICE HAS BEEN AND I
TO PROTECT AND SAVE THE LIFE O
THE CHILD THAT IS DUE TO B
BORN
>> FINAL QUESTION, YOU STILL
DON'T WANT TO SEE ANY CHANGE I
THE LAW AS IT IS
>> Translator: THE PRESIDENT'S
POSITION HAS BEEN VERY CLEAR
ABOUT THE POLITICS OF THIS
ISSUE.
>> BUT IN SHORT, THE ANSWER IS
NO NEED FOR ANY CHANGE IN TH
LAW?
>> THE ADMINISTRATION HAS
POSITION AND A CONVICTION AND IN
CHILE, THIS IS OUR CHALLENGE
WHAT KIND OF SOCIETY DO WE WAN
TO BE.
>>> NEXT FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22nd
IS, OF COURSE, THE 50t
ANNIVERSARY OF THE ASSASSINATION
OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY
YOU ARE GOING TO HEAR FROM A
WOMAN WITH A UNIQUE PERSPECTIV
THAT DAY
SHE WAS FEET FROM TH
PRESIDENT'S LIMOUSINE WHEN H
WAS GUNNED DOWN.
SHE RARELY TALKED ABOUT IT OVE
THE YEARS.
THE PHOTOGRAPH SHE SNAPPED THA
DAY HAS BECOME AN IMPORTANT PART
OF HISTORY
>> BEING HERE TODAY BRINGS BAC
ALL THE MEMORIES, REALLY MIXED
EMOTIONS, MORE SO THAN THE LAS
FEW TIMES THAT I HAVE BEEN HERE.
I SAW A MAN KILLED RIGHT I
FRONT OF MY EYES
>> WHEN SHE WAS 31 YEARS OLD
SHE LEARNED THE PRESIDENTIAL MOE
TOLL CADE WOULD DRIVE-THROUG
DOWNTOWN DALLAS.
SHE WAS A FAN OF THE FIRST LADY,
SO SHE AND A FRIEND HEADED T
THE PLAZA TO WATCH THE
PROCESSION
>> MY SON WAS IN SCHOOL.
I TOLD HIM YOU CAN'T BE OUT OF
SCHOOL
I'LL TAKE A PICTURE FOR YOU,
NEVER DREAMING THAT THAT PICTURE
WOULD BE PART OF HISTORY
>> THIS STILL FRAME TOOK JUS
ONE PHOTOGRAPH OF THE PRESIDEN
THAT DAY
A GRAINY POLAROID.
>> AS THE CAR GOT CLOSER TO US
I STEPPED CLOSER TO THE CURB
HERE AND JEAN WAS YELLING, MR.
PRESIDENT, LOOK THIS WAY
WHEN I PUT THE CAMERA UP TO MY
FACE, I WANTED TO MAKE SURE IT
WAS AS CLOSE AS I COULD GET TO
HIM.
I SNAPPED THE PICTURE, LOOKING
THROUGH THE VIEW FINDER, O
COURSE
>> WHEN THE PHOTO WAS DEVELOPED,
IT WAS CLEAR SHE PRESSED IT JUST
AT THE 46-YEAR-OLD PRESIDENT WAS
HIT AND FATALLY WOUNDED BY A
RIFLE'S BULLET
IT'S THE ONLY KNOWN PHOTOGRAPH
OF THE MOMENT THE PRESIDENT WA
STRUCK THAT ALSO CAPTURED TH
GRASSY KNOLL
>> WHEN THE MOTORCADE STARTED TO
PASS, SHE REALIZED THAT SHE HA
PT TAKEN THE ONE PHOTOGRAPH SH
PROMISED HER SON
>> ALLEN IS THE WRITER AND FIL
MAKER BEHIND THIS "SILEN
WITNESS SPEAKS" THAT DOCUMENTS
HER STORY.
>> WHEN I ASKED HER WHAT DID YOU
SEE WHEN YOU LOOKED THROUGH TH
VIEW FINDER, SHE THOUGHT THERE
WAS A GUST OF WIND
HIS HAIR LIFTED UP
SHE HAD NO IDEA THAT WHAT SH
WAS PHOTOGRAPHING WAS TH
ASSASSINATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES
>> JACKIE HOLLERS, MY GOD, HE'
BEEN SHOT.
>> WE HEARD THAT SO PLAIN.
THEN JUST SECONDS LATER, HE HA
SLUMPED OVER ON JACKIE AND SHE
STARTED TO CLIMB OUT OF THE CAR.
BY THAT TIME -
>> THIS INTERVIEW WAS FILMED
EARLIER THIS YEAR WHERE TH
81-YEAR-OLD ORIGINALLY TOOK TH
ICONIC PICTURE
THE FILM IS NOW DISPLAYED AT A
EXHIBIT IN NEW YORK CITY
IT'S CALLED, JFK, A BYSTANDERS
VIEW OF HISTORY.
>> TO ME, PHOTOGRAPHY WAS TH
WAY TO MANAGE THAT GRIEF AND
TRAUMA
A WAY TO TRY TO GET A HANDLE O
WHAT REALLY HAPPENED
>> BRIAN WALLACE, THE CHIE
CURATOR POURED OVER THOUSANDS OF
PHOTOGRAPHS FOR THE EXHIBIT.
>> ONE OF THE THING THAT I
STRUCK ME ABOUT THE PHOTOGRAPH
WAS THAT UP CLOSE AND PERSONAL
INTIMACY OF THE SNAPSHOTS.
I WAS SURPRISED TO FIND THAT
PEOPLE WERE ALLOWED TREMENDOUS
ACCESS TO THE PRESIDENT.
IN FACT, THE MOTORCADE THROUGH
DALLAS IN NOVEMBER, 1963 WAS
JUST FOR THAT PURPOSE, SO LARG
CROWDS COULD GET CLOSE TO TH
PRESIDENT.
THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY BY FAR,
IS THE POLAROID TAKEN BY MAR
ANN MORMON AT THE EXACT INSTAN
THE PRESIDENT WAS STRUCK BY TH
FIRST BULLET
>> IT ALL HAPPENED IN SUCH
SECONDS, MOMENTS, REALLY
IT WAS OVER WITH
>> YOU CAN SEE MORE FROM THE
EXHIBIT, JFK, NOVEMBER 22, 1963,
A BYSTANDERS VIEW OF HISTORY
>> THIS IS PBS "NEWS HOU
WEEKEND SATURDAY."
>>> IN TONIGHT'S CONNECTION,
SIZING UP WHAT CITY THAT HAS
TALLEST BUILDING IN AMERICA.
THAT TITLE OFFICIALLY BELONGS TO
NEW YORK'S ONE WORLD TRADE
CENTER
NEWS CELEBRATED THIS WEEK AFTE
A RULING KNOWN AS THE COUNSEL ON
TALL BUILDINGS AND URBAN
HABITAT.
THE HEIGHTS COMMITTEE DETERMINED
THE NEW YORK TOWER MEASURES
SYMBOLIC 1776 FEET FROM TH
GROUND FLOOR TO THE VERY TOP O
ITS SPIRE, JUST AS THE BUILDER
INTENDED
CHICAGO MAYOR, RAHM EMANUE
BELIEVES WILLIS TOWER, KNOWN A
THE SEARS TOWER SHOULD BE RANKED
NUMBER ONE AS IT WAS FOR
DECADES.
AFTER ALL, YOU CAN GO TO THE TOP
OF THAT BUILDING TO VIEW IT.
THE NEW YORK BUILDING WOULD BE
83 FEET SHORTER THAN THE WILLI
TOWER IF YOU DIDN'T COUNT TH
SPIRE, SOMETHING HE DISMISSES AS
NOTHING MORE THAN AN ANTENNA
>> I WOULD SAY TO ALL TH
EXPERTS GATHERED IN ONE ROOM, IF
IT LOOKS LIKE AN ANTENNA, ACTS
LIKE AN ANTENNA, IT IS A
ANTENNA.
FOR THOSE THAT WANT TO CRAWL O
TOP OF IT, GO AHEAD.
I SUGGEST STAYING INDOORS.
>> A COMEDIAN SAYS THIS DISPUT
IS REFERRED TO VANITY HEIGHT AND
IS ONLY ABOUT FRAGILE MALE EGOS.
SHE HAS WAY TO END THE DEBATE.
>> WE NEED FEMALE MAYORS
THEY WOULD SAY WHAT DO YOU THINK
IS MORE ATTRACTIVE
I THINK THIS BUILDING IS WAY
MORE ATTRACTIVE AND WE SHOUL
ADORN IT WITH A FEW OTHE
THINGS
THE MAYOR OF NEW YORK DECLARED
AT 5'8" DECLARES VICTORY OVE
THE MAY I DON'T HAVE OF NEW YORK
AT 5'7".
>>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLIN
TOMORROW
DRAMATIC CHANGES TO THE HIGH
SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY EXAM.
>> WHAT WE ARE DOING I
COMPLICATED, CONFUSING AND
WORRISOME.
WE ARE ABSOLUTELY CONVINCED WHAT
WE ARE DOING IS THE RIGHT THIN
FOR LEARNERS
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
♪♪